Now where did you go after officer
school? From, this unit was also there, well it was
at Camp Wood. What, Leonard Wood? No. No? No, it
was, I'm not sure what the other name was. It was
just four or five miles outside of Fort Monmouth.
Okay, I see. It was at the same place we went through
our, was, I recall, what they called it, POM or
something training, overseas training, where
you crawl under the machine gun fire, you go
through the gas drills and throw grenades and this
sort of thing, fired on the rifle range and various
things as this. Preparation for overseas
movement is, I believe, what they called it. And
from there, why? went to, as a unit on the train, a
troop train to California and went overseas on the
USS Merline, which was
at one time a pleasure craft of the Matson line
running from Frisco to Hawaii. And it was... What
was this unit's designation? We went to New
Guinea. No, no destination. What was it called? Do
you remember? Did it have a number, et cetera?
0964H, Casual Detachment, 0964H. And it was
actually the entire detachment were made up of two
headquarters teams, which was a company
commander, a supply officer, a company clerk, and
a first sergeant, and I don't remember whether
they had a mess sergeant or not, but it was a team
supposedly could go in and operate a company.
There were two of these teams. There were ten of the
radio teams that were called three position radio
teams where you operate from one place, your
receivers are remote site and transmitters are
another remote site. These units each had two
officers and about 20 men. The switchboard team
were called a three position switchboard team
which meant you had a place for three switchboard
operators sitting side by side. We had a cable
splicer, an installer repairman. In other words,
this unit could not only set up and operate the
switchboard, but all the connecting phones and
trunks to other switchboards, this sort of
capability. When did you sail? Do you remember
what month and year you sailed? It was in October,
about the 10th of October. It's 1943. And 44. 44,
excuse me. They made the invasion of Lady, I think,
while we were on the boat. And so you went to New
Guinea. And we started at New Guinea. We were
supposed to have gone into Australia and were
running out of fresh water. And Brisbane was not
deep enough harbor for them to take on fresh water.
So we went to Milne Bay and from there on to
Oro Bay, which is where we debarked and then oh a
number of us had problems with the company
commander and
got transferred out as fast as we could and I went to
a heavy construction company which was a full line
type construction company up at Alanya. What was
the designation of this unit? This unit was
company C of the 52nd Signal Battalion. This was a a
signal battalion that had been in, started out in
Australia. It was broken down into, I believe
there were two heavy construction companies and
an operating company, radio, message center type
set up, and a headquarters company. For roughly
two weeks while I was there, the month that I was
there at Helania, it was the only time I ever saw
anything of our other than just the company we were
sent as a separate company and later even split to
separate platoons, company and different task
force.
You said you were there about a month? At Hylania
about a month and then we went to Lady. From Lady uh
oh we had just got an assignment to rebuild a line
over what they call the Ormont corridor and these
were changed and we were sent to Mindoro where we
joined with the 41st division which had been come
up all the way from Australia, New Guinea, Boonah,
Finch Haven, a number of these places
at the end of the war this Major Helles who was a
signal officer over us as a separate unit I think
the first first list of coming home with number of
points he was on it he'd been there this long and it
was a unit that had been through a lot but But at
Mendora, this is where we split the company, and we
went and split the cooks, split the company
clerks. Of course, we had construction platoons
that were already separated, and we went as a
separate platoon then to Palawan in the
Philippines with the 186th Regiment as a
regimental combat team. I don't recall, spent
probably three or four months there and later
rejoined the company and the rest of the division
down at Zamboanga where they had gone in as an
invasion and the same type thing where ours was
there at Palawan. I think they had probably more
opposition down there. Were you all following the
combat troops in to do your particular work? Yes,
we were assigned in splitting the division.
Signal Company, they didn't have enough
personnel to accomplish their mission of
telephone and what have you. And we went in,
started off stringing field wire and what have
you. And as soon as
ours was over pretty quick, in close at least, This
was at Port Princesa where we went in, but
then we started some pole line construction
for the various units. There were a number of
aviation engineering battalions there
building, rebuilding the runway. This seemed to
have been a place where any time a plane was flying,
back and forth, and I'm not sure from where to
where, Lady or what have you, to the island south
where they had come from and they had any bombs
left. They dropped them here. So the engineers had
a pretty rough time getting this rebuilt. Did you
all come under any fire while you were doing here?
Oh, not really. In other words, the area was fairly
well cleared before y'all went in and laid lines?
Well, there are some of our working and
right-of-ways that may be standing there with a
pair of pliers and see Jaffa and both of them was
ready to bail out, but primarily it was a cleared
area. We used to have a lone air raid, long plane
making an air raid once in a while, this sort of
thing, but not, not a concentrated effort. There,
there were lots of, and I say lots, there were a
number of individual Japanese soldiers and there
were, they had a small penal group or prison for
them where they would bring them in but this was an
island that well
I guess it's claim to fame was it had two penal
colonies there that were still operating as penal
colonies under the chaps and under after they were
freed lots of them were
lifers, this type of thing. From where? I think
primarily they were shipped down from Manila.
Were they mainly Filipinos? They were all
Filipinos, yes. These were Filipino prison
institutes. And what island is this on now? This is
on Palawan. Palawan, okay. But I had dinner with
the the warden on one occasion. We of course they
had a telephone system of the sort and we had some
equipment people that helped rehab it for him and
this Major Helles that I'd mentioned before and I
went over and had dinner with him. He was told us
some of the things. This is the one time
censorship almost got our unit in trouble because
some of the men had been over it or that were working
over there happened to take a picture where these
this was prisoners that of the penal colony had
been jumped working out in the fields and they'd
been jumped by some japs and they were apparently
so hungry that once they took over their food they
got so busy eating they weren't paying attention
and these Filipinos had proceeded to chop their
head off with a machete and this picture was of
these three guys standing there with a head in the
bucket and of course that I'm not real sure where
the whether, as I recall, one of the guys went to the
censor wanting to know if he could send it home and
this closed down an illicit sort of developing
photo lab that one of them had blown to one of these
units that had been operating.
Oh my. And then could you go on? Well from after
rejoining the company at Zamboango we were of
course then went back almost to a basic training
type situation with the 41st Division preparing
and we had already been assigned a place to land in
Japan with the 41st when the end of the war came and
at this time then
We disbanded the Company C of the 52nd Signal
Battalion and I went back to Lady and was wire
officer there at Lady for a
period of probably six or seven more months before
I came home.
What did you do after you arrived home? Of course, I
got home, as I recall, in the end of May, first of
June. And I don't remember specifically about how
I went about it, but I knew I was going back to A&M to
finish. And I had the summer. I spent some time. My
parents, in the meantime, had gone to Oak Ridge,
Tennessee. And they were there when I got out of the
service, where I'd going in on active duty there in
Louisiana. I was discharged at Camp McCoy,
Wisconsin, and from there down to Tennessee. I had
a sister and brother-in-law that lived in
Rochester, New York, and I went up there for a week
or two before coming back down to A&M to finish up.
So when did you start back to A&M? I started back in
September, October, whenever, September of 46.
And graduated in June of 47, May of 47. So you only
had about a year to go. Yes, I liked a year. Were
there many veterans there when you got there? Yes,
there were lots of them. Where did you live when you
got there? I don't remember now, 14 I believe it
was. Yes, 13 or 14. This was the next newer dorms
over on the north side of the campus. In the Sebesa
area. In the Sebesa area, right. These were built
very similar to 1 to 12 over in the Duncan area, but
they were added down in behind
You went to school then on the GI Bill? Yes, on the GI
Bill. How much were they paying you? Do you
remember how that worked? Not really. I was
reading an article in the paper where they were
trying to compare it in those days with now. They
did pay all the tuition, all your books, and
what have you, and we had
I just don't remember if I had to guess I would have
said 75 as I recall the paper said something about
115 dollars a month cash but really this I was
single I've been single and there hadn't been many
places spend any money overseas so this part of it
wasn't wasn't this hard at this time Do you
remember seeing any changes in the campus when you
got back? Any attitudes, or were you seeing much
change in the way things were going on? Did it seem
changed? I don't recall that there was this much
change other than
going to class, this kind of thing. Most of these
were the same profs you had in EE. It's a smaller
group. possibly than some of the other
departments, but they were all
leaning over backwards to help you, to give you the
benefit of the doubt, or what have you, knowing
that you'd been gone for two, two and a half years,
something like this. Was there much friction
between the new civilian students and the Corps of
Cadets then?
I don't really recall any particular at all.
We
of course
ate in Sabisa running downstairs as a cafeteria
type thing with the great influx.
like seven o'clock classes so you were getting
down there to eat breakfast pretty early if you
went to breakfast and on to class and what have you
so
and of course by now there are many more cars on the
campus and you weren't particularly tied down to
the campus so that
So you really didn't notice too many changes. You
came back and sort of fitted right in without
having any adjustment problems.
I didn't feel that many of us didn't. Probably
those who had the biggest adjustment problem were
those who had married and started families during
their time in the service. They were living in the
barracks that had been moved in off over on the
north side of the campus there.
And these were little bitty apartments and...
Did you have any friends who were in the Corps then
at that time? I don't recall any in the Corps
particularly. These were all... So most of your
friends that you had were all veterans? Right,
right. This was the group you associated with. a
big part. Actually just laying out this one summer
I was in a sense
one a half a semester but also required courses and
some of this it took me a year many of those who had
were in the class of 44 still like a semester
certainly to finish and were there so most of you I
mean they were plenty of those you'd been
associated with all of us living in nearly all of us
living in the same dorm there. Were things a lot
more crowded then? We were living always then at
least three in a room. Now
when you graduated do you recall let's see how old
the phrase is What was your first job after you
graduated? Well, since I had some more GI Bill
available, my older sister was trying to talk me
into coming to New York and live with her and take
some business. My dad was urging me to get a
master's or something, but I ended up not really
having made up my mind. came back to Corpus and went
to work as a German electrician at an electric
construction company and I've been there ever
since.
Oh after about six months working with the tools I
started estimating and nights and eventually
into the office full-time and now What was your
connection? How did you go back on your work for
electric construction? I went down. I had worked
out of the local union, and it was just by chance
that I went there. They had a request in for me, and
this is where I was sent. So you've been there ever
since. And what's your current position with them
now? I'm president. When did you become
president? in 1970 I believe it was. I see. Do you
feel that your education at A&M prepared you for
your current work? Do you feel you were well
prepared?
Some respects yes, some no.
Mine is not, I mean a contracting business is not,
there are engineering opportunities there. But
there's also more business requirements
than just the engineering.
Actually, we don't really do
out and out engineering projects. Ours is
strictly a construction type operation. And
where more business would have helped me more.
There are a few schools that have started whether
they're still maintaining I'm not sure. I believe
Tulsa University was one.
A degree in that would lead to a degree in
electrical contracting. I see. These are though
through the National Electrical Contractors
Association working with a university to to get
them set up, because there is some basic
engineering needed,
but also there's lots of business that it would
help if you knew more of it earlier. This sort of
thing, and this is what I think this other course is
trying to accomplish.
Are there any comments you feel you'd like to make?
If you look back over the whole era, do you feel
there were any lost opportunities? Oh, we were
mentioning the hitchhiking and it came to mind
that the hitchhiking was also kind of set up like
the hazing. That there was a specific corner in any
given town that you didn't ever start in front of
that corner. You could start there. You could
start anywhere on down the line. But you didn't
ever start ahead of that corner. This was being
called upstream. You could go on down. I can recall
one time going to a football game in Dallas. The
corner was there in Bryan. And when I got in the
line, I was 103.
About an hour and a half later, I was out, but there
was a code to the hitchhiking. Only one stood out at
the road. The others were back away from the road.
If a car stopped, that one would ask, where are you
going, how many will you take? And if he was only
going a short distance, and if you're in a long
line, you're hoping for that long ride, and if
you're up to the front, you might say, well, you'll
take two to Hearn and it starts down the line the
first two down the line that wanted to go but but
this uh really they had developed it to a real code
of ethics. Was there one then say you were going to
Dallas was there a corner then in Dallas on the way
back that you didn't start? Yes yes there was
nearly any town of any size there was now you may not
always know it but pretty much it was the center of
town or some such thing as this. Houston, it was on
out on the north side of Houston. It wasn't
downtown there in the bigger towns. It was out
towards where the highways are. There's not much
question of which way you're going. But you always
had to start from that point. Ethically, yes.
Ethically.
Were there any other rules to this hitchhiking
game?
No, primarily just this idea that you represented
A&M, you were courteous, you didn't go to sleep,
you talked to them if they wanted to talk or sat
there, but you observed these rules. Was it easy or
difficult to get a ride hitchhiking? It was easy,
pretty much. I can recall one night spending all
night over in Alice when my freshman year I still
lived there in the valley
but I found out later that a day or two before
there'd been a hijacking or something of it by
supposedly a hitchhiker and this word always hurt
the hitchhiker but in the daytime where they could
see the A&M uniform and what have you They were
always wellies. I can recall my freshman year, the
company commander and the battalion commander
leaving, hitchhiking to Los Angeles to a football
game, coming back through, changing their
clothes and hitchhiking to New York to the one the
next weekend.
This is getting along.
Hmm. Anything else you recall? They might want to
be preserved. You might want to have preserved.
No, not really. Thank you very much.